---
title: "I must write."
description: "To escape this ubiquitous sedation - or die trying."
date: "2025-05-06"
tags: ["writing"]
coverImage: "/uploads/blog-covers/i-must-write.png"
coverImageAlt: "Writing flagged as likely AI-generated"
---

<p>Welcome to my humble blog page, dear reader. <br>This page is my intrepid attempt at maintaining a stream of my coherent original thought. I should admit, ‘coherence’ is the aspiration, but is likely to be corroded by my juvenile ramblings. Regardless, I have been finding it increasingly important to write, in this world of <em>commoditized creativity &amp; instantaneous inspiration.</em> <br><br>I love to write. I always have. I have a cute little sketchbook/journal that I like to maintain for my imaginative bursts, and I figured I’d take it up a notch and bring it to Substack for the world (<em>my brother &amp; the 3 people who accidentally stumbled upon this</em>) to see.<br><br>Growing up, I was always a book kid, not a TV kid. My parents vehemently refused to sit me in front of the TV in my early years. I would devour books and stay glued to them to the degree that my storybooks would have to be confiscated from me, as an iPad would be confiscated from a child today. <br><br>I would read in school, at home and everywhere in between. I reckon my school’s staff room still has my copy of the Chronicles of Narnia  impounded away somewhere, collecting dust. (I was caught red-handed reading it under my desk during a so-called self study period.)<br><br>I was jokingly referred to as <em>dictionary</em> by my peers during my school days on account of my enthusiasm for the language, debates and rhetoric. I also happened to win the Bangalore Spelling Bee in Grade 7. My spelling abilities have only declined since then, and today I find myself stuck rechecking basic words like ‘necessary’ or ‘commitment.’<br><br>I’m used to being the default scribe for my friends, to write emails, essays, projects or applications. It's a favour I enjoy extending, because I get to have fun playing with words. I got quick at whipping up a half-decent essay for people in minutes. The satisfaction of writing something decent with just the right rhythm to it is irreplaceable.<br><br>To my surprise, my occassional pro-bono work has not yet been completely replaced by Generative AI, because in most cases, anyone looking closely or concerned enough can discern AI-generated content from original writing. <br><br>Or at least that’s what I thought. Does it work the other way around too?<br></p>
<p><br>I started getting my formal writing flagged as AI generated. Sure, these AI detectors are often inaccurate - but it got me thinking: <em>Was I starting to write with the same rhythm &amp; word choices as ChatGPT?</em> <em>Have I consumed so much AI generated content that my output has become akin to synthetic AI generated content?</em> <em>Has my vocabulary and grammar been poisoned to the extent that I can only produce inorganic tapestries of  recycled phrases?<br><br></em>I was disgusted by the proposition that I should fail to pass a Turing Test - I had become so corporate &amp; MBA coded that my writing no longer had spice to it. <br><br>I’m starting this page to ensure that I keep this muscle fit and mind sharp. We have no shortage of mental shortcuts and creative crutches today - and I am already seeing terrifying signs of my spellcheck &amp; AI-assisted gradual cognitive decline. <br><br>I have always been a storyteller looking for new creative outlets - and I intend to continue doing so. Let this be one of many. <br><br><strong>I must exercise &amp; build this muscle - my </strong><em><strong>physiotherapy</strong></em><strong> starts today.</strong> <br></p>
